#labels Phase-Deploy,Phase-Design
#How to check out a valid project

= Introduction =
This page explains how to check out the project source for edition to have a ready to use GWT project.


= Details =
From your eclipse SVN Repository view right click and choose *New > Repository Location...*

In the _Url_ field type *http://advanced-suggest-select-box.googlecode.com/svn/

Now open the tree hierarchy to the node *trunk/advanced-suggest-select-box*, right click and choose the option *Find/Check out as...*

Select *Checkout as a project configured using the New Project Wizard* then presse *Finish* and select *Google > Web Application Project*

In the project name type : *IntoGwt* , and in the package name type *eu.nextstreet.gwt.components* 

Select a gwt version 2.5 or higher. 

When prompted if the existing files can be overridden choose yes so that the gwt.xml original file overrides the one created by your project wizard.

_To be sure the "new project wizard" didn't override the files downloaded from svn, redo a svn synchronize on the project and select "override and update" on the project root._

*To be able to see the [http://into-i.fr/suggestbox/ demo app] running, you need to set the boolean field _IntoGwt.test_ value to true, then run the project as a GWT application*

You're done! you can run the gwt project now. Check the boolean variable IntoGWT.test is initialized to 'true': this enables the test procedure.

=Troubleshooting=
==lib/gwt-servlet.jar missing==
If the project doesn't compile, uncheck the Google Web Application option checkbox (Project properties -> Google -> Web Kit -> Use Google web toolkit). press OK and wait until it compiles. Then go back to that menu and check the option again. Clicking ok should resolve the issue.